Events update (#144)
orcwg/orcwg: events/2025-07-global-digital-collaboration/README.md

The Cyber Resilience Act (CRA) is set to reconfigure the way software is designed, built, and maintained in Europe. 
The session "Sovereign by Design: Regulatory Compliance and the Cyber Resilience Act" unpacked:
  - How CRA is reshaping open source and commercial software development
  - The difference between being a Manufacturer and a Steward in a post-CRA world
  - Practical lessons from open-source ecosystems adapting to the new normal

### Speakers:
- Daniel Thompson-Yvetot - *Tauri Co-Founder and CEO of Crabnebula*
- Roman Zhukov - *Principal Security & Community Architect at Red Hat*
- Juan Rico - *Eclipse Foundation*

## Key takeaways
1. **Compliance is now central to software development** for products with digital elements. The definition of "good" software is evolving: compliance with regulatory frameworks like the CRA is as important as performance or security. Early integration of cybersecurity risk assessments and conformity planning is critical to avoid costly rework or legal exposure.

> 2. **Open Source needs representation and stewardship**. While casual open source contributors are largely out of scope, open source components used in commercial products must comply. The concept of Open Source Stewards is emerging as a crucial role to help projects meet CRA requirements and support downstream adopters.

Reviewer: I still think folks get too hung-up on the role of stewards (and assume open source foundation when they think about stewards, whereas the reality is that most stewards will be forprofits). The real facilitator will be the attestation program.

Reviewer 2: +1. Absolutely agree. But we (I mean both stewards and other ecosystem players) should talk about it and deliver that message more explicitly.

> 2. **Open Source needs representation and stewardship**. While casual open source contributors are largely out of scope, open source components used in commercial products must comply. The concept of Open Source Stewards is emerging as a crucial role to help projects meet CRA requirements and support downstream adopters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Open Source needs representation and stewardship**. While casual open source contributors are largely out of scope, manufacturers must ensure that open source components used in their products conform to the essential cybersecurity requirements of the CRA. The concept of Open Source Stewards is emerging as a crucial role to help projects meet CRA requirements and support downstream adopters.
```

3. **Understanding roles and responsibilities** under the CRA is essential Manufacturers, distributors, open source stewards and developers have distinct obligations under the CRA. Companies like Red Hat are mapping these roles and aligning their internal processes—such as due diligence, documentation, and vulnerability management—to meet the regulatory expectations.

> 4. **Collaboration is key to shaping practical open source friendly compliance**. Engagement in working groups, standardisation bodies, and community initiatives like the Open Regulatory Compliance WG, CEN/CENELEC, ETSI) is vital to ensure that CRA implementation supports, rather than hinders, the open source ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: There were 2 other good questions about retrospective application of the CRA and categories:

5.  **Be ready for conformity assessment of the legacy versions of the PDEs**. It's important to understand that all PDEs that're available on the market after Dec 2027 should be conformant to the CRA, including CE marking. It also applies to legacy PDEs (or for previous versions of them) that were produced before Dec 2027 and still not end of life.
6. **Inventory of PDEs and understanding potential categories is important to complete as soon as possible**. While the Technical Descriptions of Important and Critical PDEs is not final yet, it's essential to perform categorization right now for better understanding and planning the future conformity assessment, that may require proactive engagement with Third-Party Assessment Organizations, such as Notified Bodies (NB) and Conformity Assessment Body (CAB).
